{{Individual infobox
|theme = slytherin
|image = 
|name = Araminta Meliflua Black
|born = In or before [[1977]]<ref>Araminta has to be alive ''at least'' seventeen years before 1995 (1978) to be of age to petition for a law to be passed at a point pre-1995. However, as a cousin of Walburga's, she may be around the same age.</ref>
|died = Before [[1995]] (possibly)<ref>Sirius stated that he was the last of the Blacks by the late 1995, so it is possible that Araminta died at some point before or during that year, however it is possible that he only meant he was the last with the surname Black, as Bellatrix Lestrange (née Black), Andromeda Tonks (née Black), and Narcissa Malfoy (née Black) were still alive at the time he said that, and she could been married, so she could potentially have still been alive as well.</ref>
|blood = [[Pure-blood]]<ref name="Blood">Her cousins were pure-bloods, and she was not blasted off the [[House of Black|Black family tree]]</ref>
|marital = 
|nationality = 
|alias = 
|title = 
|signature = 
|species = [[Human]]<ref name="OOTP6"/>
|gender = Female<ref name="OOTP6"/>
|height = 
|weight = 
|hair = 
|eyes = 
|skin = 
|family = *[[Pollux Black]] (possible uncle) †
*[[Irma Crabbe|Irma Black]] (née [[Crabbe family|Crabbe]]) (possible aunt by marriage)
*[[Walburga Black]] (cousin)<ref name="OOTP6"/> †
*[[Alphard Black]] (cousin)<ref name="OOTP6"/> †
*[[Cygnus Black (III)]] (cousin)<ref name="OOTP6"/> †
*[[House of Black]]<ref name="OOTP6"/>
|romances = 
|animagus = 
|boggart = 
|wand = 
|patronus = 
|job = 
|house = [[Slytherin]]<ref name="slytherin">In {{HBP|B|4}}, [[Horace Slughorn]] states: "The whole Black family had been in my house, but Sirius ended up in [[Gryffindor]]!" This implies that all Blacks except Sirius were sorted into [[Slytherin]] while Slughorn was teaching at [[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry|Hogwarts]]. As revealed in ''[[Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies]]'', Chapter 3 (Horace Slughorn), Slughorn had "completed half a century of service" at the time of his retirement in [[1981]], meaning he started teaching there circa [[1931]].</ref>
|loyalty = *[[House of Black]]<ref name="OOTP6"/>
*[[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry]]
**[[Slytherin]]
}}
{{Quote| ''[...]'' and Araminta Meliflua... cousin of my mother's... tried to force through a [[Ministry Bill to make Muggle-hunting legal]] ''[...]''|[[Sirius Black]] to [[Harry Potter]] on Araminta|Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix}}

'''Araminta Meliflua Black'''<ref name="scholastic">Wizard's Challenge at the [http://harrypotter.scholastic.com/ Scholastic Official Site]</ref> was [[Walburga Black]]'s cousin. She was noted for her hatred of [[Non-magic people|Muggle]]s. She once tried to get the [[British Ministry of Magic|Ministry of Magic]] to pass a law that would make Muggle-hunting legal. The bill was most likely turned down.<ref name="OOTP6">{{OOTP|B|6}}</ref>

==Etymology==
*[http://www.behindthename.com/name/araminta Araminta] is a name of uncertain origin. It may be an elaborated form of [http://www.behindthename.com/name/aminta Aminta], which derives from the Greek word ''amyntor'', meaning "defender". Araminta Ross was the birth name of African-American abolitionist {{W|Harriet Tubman}}.
*''Meliflua'' is presumably based on the English adjective "[http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=mellifluous mellifluous]", which means "sweet-sounding" and derives from the Latin ''mellifluus'', "flowing like honey".

==Behind the scenes==
*Although [[Sirius Black]] pointed out Araminta to his godson, [[Harry Potter]], on the [[House of Black|Black family tapestry]], her name did not appear on the copy of the family tree [[J. K. Rowling]] donated to a charity auction in [[2006]].
*Araminta's exact relationship to Walburga is unknown; she could be a first cousin, or Sirius could have simply shortened their true relation (''n''th cousin, ''x'' removed). Her parentage is also unknown.

==Appearances==
*{{OOTP}} {{Mention|1st}}

==Notes and references==
{{Reflist}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Black, Araminta Meliflua}}
[[de:Araminta Meliflua]]
[[de2:Araminta Meliflua Black]]
[[es:Araminta Meliflua]]
[[fr:Araminta Meliflua]]
[[pl:Araminta Meliflua]]
[[pt:Araminta Melíflua Black]]
[[ru:Араминта Мелифлуа Блэк]]
[[Category:20th century births]]
[[Category:Activists]]
[[Category:British individuals]]
[[Category:Females]]
[[Category:House of Black|Araminta Meliflua]]
[[Category:Pure-bloods]]
[[Category:Slytherins]]
[[Category:Wizarding supremacists]]
[[Category:Wizards]]