{{Individual infobox
|theme = gryffindor
|image = EloiseMidgenHeadShot.jpg
|name = Eloise Midgen
|born = Late [[1970s]]<ref name="age">Eloise was already at Hogwarts in the [[1993–1994 school year]]. To be there, she would've had to be born at least fifteen years prior. She was also considered a possible date to the [[Yule Ball]] during the [[1994–1995 school year]], which was for [[fourth year]] students and above.</ref>
|died =
|blood =
|marital =
|nationality = {{GBorIE}}
|alias =
|title =
|signature =
|species = [[Human]]<ref name="GOF13"/>
|gender = Female<ref name="GOF13"/>
|height =
|weight =
|hair =
|eyes =
|skin = Light (bad case of acne)<ref name="GOF13"/>
|family = [[Eloise Midgen's father|Father]]<ref name="HBP11"/>
|romances =
|animagus =
|boggart =
|wand =
|patronus =
|job =
|house = [[Gryffindor]]<ref name="house">{{GOF|F}}</ref>
|loyalty = *[[Midgen family]]
*[[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry]]<ref name="GOF13"/>
**[[Gryffindor]]<ref name="house"/>
}}
{{Dialogue a-b-a|Ron Weasley|I'd rather go alone than with — with Eloise Midgen, say.|Hermione Granger|Her acne's loads better lately — and she's really nice!|Her nose is off-centre.|Discussion of Eloise's looks and personality|Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire}}
'''Eloise Midgen''' (also spelled "Midgeon") was a [[Wizardkind|witch]] and [[Gryffindor]]<ref name="house"/> student at [[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry]] during the [[1990s]]. She was known for having a really terrible case of acne.<ref name="GOF13"/>

==Biography==
===Hogwarts years===
In [[1994]], because she had bad [[acne]], Eloise tried using a [[curse]] to get rid of her pimples, but ended up needing to have her nose reattached by Madam [[Poppy Pomfrey]].<ref name="GOF13">{{GOF|B|13}}</ref> The incident left her nose permanently off-centre, but her acne did start to clear, at least for a while.<ref name="GOF22">{{GOF|B|22}}</ref>

[[Hermione Granger]] assured [[Ronald Weasley|Ron Weasley]] that Eloise was a very nice person when he baulked at the idea of taking her to the [[Yule Ball]]. Ron only wanted a good-looking girl, regardless of whether she was nice and refused to consider going with her.<ref name="GOF22"/> He ended up going with [[Padma Patil]], identical twin sister to [[Parvati Patil]], another Gryffindor girl in [[Harry Potter]]'s year.<ref name="GOF23">{{GOF|B|23}}</ref>

The [[1995|following year]], Hermione warned that anyone who snitched after signing up for [[Dumbledore's Army]] would be struck with a [[Dumbledore's Army parchment jinx|jinx]] that would make Eloise's acne seem like "''a couple of cute freckles''".<ref name="OOTP17">{{OOTP|B|17}}</ref>

Eloise was withdrawn from [[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry|Hogwarts]] by her [[Eloise Midgen's father|father]] in early [[September]] [[1996]], as the public's fear about the threat posed by [[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]]'s return mounted.<ref name="HBP11">{{HBP|B|11}}</ref>

==Physical description==
Eloise Midgen was known for having a really terrible case of acne. In [[1994]], as a result of trying to use a [[curse]] to get rid of her pimples, she ended up needing to have her nose reattached, leaving her nose permanently off-centre, but her acne did start to clear, at least for a while.<ref name="GOF13"/>

==Personality and traits==
Eloise was very uncomfortable and self-conscious about her acne problems, which was only made worse because students kept joking about it.<ref name="GOF13"/> She was very kind and pleasant, according to [[Hermione Granger]],<ref name="GOF22"/> which could be considered a fair judgement of her personality.

==Etymology==
The name "Eloise" comes from the Old [[France|French]] name Héloïse, which is probably from the Germanic name Helewidis, composed of the elements heil "hale, healthy" and wid "wide". It is sometimes associated with the [[Greece|Greek]] word ‘ηλιος (helios) "sun" or the name Louise, though there is not likely an etymological connection. This name was borne in the 12th century by Saint Eloise, the wife of the French theologian Peter Abelard. She became a nun after her husband was castrated by her uncle.

==Behind the scenes==
*Eloise Midgen appeared briefly in {{GOF|FA}}, played by [[Samantha Clinch]]. In the scene, [[Professor]] [[Minerva McGonagall]] teaches the [[Gryffindor]]s to dance for the [[Yule Ball]]. She tells them, "''Inside every girl, a secret [[swan]] slumbers, longing to burst forth and take flight.''" At this, [[Ronald Weasley|Ron Weasley]] looks across the room, sees Eloise shifting about uncomfortably, and quips to [[Seamus Finnigan]], "''Something's about to burst out of Eloise Midgen, but I don't think it's a swan.''"
*Eloise's [[Hogwarts Houses|House]] is never revealed in the books. Although presented as a [[Gryffindor]] in the ''Goblet of Fire'' film, she is widely believed by fans to have been in [[Hufflepuff]] due to the familiarity with which [[Hannah Abbott]] referred to her in the ''Goblet of Fire'' novel.<ref name="GOF13"/> [[Pomona Sprout]], the Head of Hufflepuff, called Eloise a "''silly girl''" for trying to curse away her acne, recalling a comment made by Sprout about the inability of one confirmed [[Hufflepuff]], [[Nymphadora Tonks]], to behave herself.

==Appearances==
*{{POA|F}} {{1st}}
*{{GOF}} {{Mention|1st}}
*{{GOF|F}}
*{{OOTP}} {{Mention}}
*{{HBP}} {{Mention}}
*{{PM}} {{Mention}}

==Notes and references==
{{Reflist}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Midgen, Eloise}}
[[de:Eloise Midgen]]
[[es:Eloise Midgen]]
[[fr:Eloïse Midgen]]
[[pl:Eloise Midgen]]
[[pt:Heloísa Midgen]]
[[ru:Элоиза Миджен]]
[[Category:20th century births]]
[[Category:British or Irish individuals]]
[[Category:Females]]
[[Category:Gryffindors]]
[[Category:Midgen family|Eloise]]
[[Category:Sorted in the 20th century]]
[[Category:Wizards]]