{{Individual infobox
|theme = gryffindor
|image = 
|name = Jack Sloper
|born = c. Pre [[31 August]] [[1984]]<ref>He must have at least been in his second year at the start of the 1995-1996 school year.</ref>
|died = 
|blood = 
|marital = 
|nationality = {{GBorIE}}
|alias = 
|title = [[Beater]]
|signature = 
|species = [[Human]]
|gender = Male
|height = 
|weight = 
|hair = 
|eyes = 
|skin = 
|family = 
|romances = 
|animagus = 
|boggart = 
|wand = 
|patronus = 
|job = 
|house = [[Gryffindor]]
|loyalty = *Sloper family
*[[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry]]
**[[Gryffindor]]
***[[Gryffindor Quidditch team]]
}}
'''Jack Sloper''' was a [[Wizardkind|wizard]] and substitute [[Beater]] on the [[Gryffindor Quidditch team]] in [[1995]]. Along with [[Andrew Kirke]], he took over from [[Fred Weasley]] and [[George Weasley]]. Jack was unsuccessful in rejoining the team the next year.

==Biography==
He and Andrew were both described as incompetent by Captain [[Angelina Johnson]];<ref name="OOTP21">{{OOTP|B|21}}</ref> this was particularly evident when he knocked himself unconscious with his own bat during a training session,<ref name="OOTP29">{{OOTP|B|29}}</ref> and during the match against Hufflepuff, both he and Andrew played poorly: on one occasion, Jack not only missed a Bludger, but also ended up hitting Angelina in the mouth with his bat. Despite his lack of skill, Jack's team ended up taking winning the Quidditch cup, indicating, like Ron, he may have started to improve at the end of the season. 

He expressed interest in continuing to play for Gryffindor, but was replaced the following year. Jack later delivered a message for [[Albus Dumbledore]] to [[Harry Potter]] with the details of their first lesson. He also asked Harry when tryouts would be held for Quidditch.<ref name="HBP9">{{HBP|B|9}}</ref>

==Etymology==
''Jack'' derives from ''John'', a name from Hebrew which means "God is gracious".

''Sloper'' could come from the English word ''slope'', a surface in which one side is higher than the other. This could relate to his inability to do things right, since slopes have been described as very hard to climb for some people.

==Appearances==
*{{OOTP}} {{1st}}
*{{HBP}}

==Notes and references==
{{Reflist}}
{{Hogwarts quidditch positions}}
{{Character-stub}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Sloper, Jack}}

[[de:Jack Sloper]]
[[de2:Jack Sloper]]
[[es:Jack Sloper]]
[[fr:Jack Sloper]]
[[it:Jack Sloper]]
[[nl:Jacques Sippe]]
[[no:Jonny Slumper]]
[[pl:Jack Sloper]]
[[pt:Juca Sloper]]
[[ru:Джек Слоупер]]
[[sv:Jack Sloper]]

[[Category:20th century births]]
[[Category:Beaters]]
[[Category:British or Irish individuals]]
[[Category:Gryffindors]]
[[Category:Males]]
[[Category:Wizards]]