{{Individual infobox
|theme=death-eater
|image=
|name=Mulciber I
|hideb=
|born= 
|died=
|blood=[[Pure-blood]] or [[half-blood]]<ref name="Blood">[[Death Eaters]] were known to vehemently oppose and loathe all [[Muggle-born]]s and [[Non-magic people|Muggles]].</ref>
|alias=
|title=
|hidep=
|species=[[Human]]<ref name="HBP20"/>
|gender=
|height=
|hair=
|eyes=
|skin=
|hidef=
|family=*[[Mulciber II]] (possible relative)
*[[Mulciber family]]
|hidem=y
|animagus=
|boggart=
|wand=
|patronus=None<ref>[http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2007/0730-bloomsbury-chat.html July 30, 2007 Web Chat with J. K. Rowling]</ref>
|hidea=
|job=
|house=
|loyalty=*[[Mulciber family]]
*[[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]]<ref name="HBP20"/>
**[[Death Eaters]]<ref name="HBP20"/>
}}
{{Quote|...-[[Nott]], [[Rosier (early Death Eater)|Rosier]], Mulciber, [[Antonin Dolohov|Dolohov]]- waiting for [[Tom Riddle|your]] return... What devoted friends, travelling so far away in the [[Water|snow]] and the night just to wish you good luck in trying to get a teacher position!|[[Albus Dumbledore]] to [[Tom Riddle]]|Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince}}
'''Mulciber I'''<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20180315000257/https://www.pottermore.com/about/a-guide-to-lord-voldemorts-death-eaters A guide to Lord Voldemort’s Death Eaters] at {{PM}}</ref> was a [[Dark wizard|Dark witch or wizard]] and one of the earliest [[Death Eaters]] of [[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]]. They were possibly an older relative of [[Mulciber II]]. They fought in the [[First Wizarding War]], and travelled to [[Hogsmeade]] in order to "wish good luck" to Tom Riddle in trying to get a teacher position at Hogwarts.<ref name="HBP20">{{HBP|B|20}}</ref>

==Biography==
===Early life===
Mulciber's early life is unknown. At some point, they became a loyal Death Eater for Lord Voldemort.<ref name="HBP20"/>

===First Wizarding War===
Mulciber fought in the [[First Wizarding War]], along with many other [[Death Eaters]]. They were among the group who travelled to Hogsmeade to "say ''good luck''" to Voldemort, during his attempt to ask for work at Hogwarts, along with fellow Death Eaters [[Nott]], [[Rosier]] and [[Antonin Dolohov]].<ref name="HBP20"/> They presumably fought in many battles during the First Wizarding War. It is unknown if they were still alive by the time of the [[Battle of Hogwarts]] and Voldemort's downfall.

==Etymology==
May refer to {{W|Mulciber}} (Hephaestus), meaning "smelter", is an alternate name for the gentle son of Zeus and Hera who had a club foot and was a craftsman and blacksmith in Greek mythology. In Roman mythology he is the god of fire and metallurgy, Vulcan.

Mulciber is also a character in John Milton's ''{{W|Paradise Lost}}'', a story based on mankind falling into sin and the struggle of heaven and hell. Mulciber was a fallen angel who is the architect of Pandemonium, the capital of Hell and home to the demons' council.

==Behind the scenes==
*During his trial, [[Igor Karkaroff]] accused a Mulciber of being a Death Eater.<ref name="GOF30">{{GOF|B|30}}</ref> It is not known whether he was referring to the older or younger Mulciber.
*It is possible that Mulciber may have been one of the unidentified boys seen with [[Tom Riddle]] in [[Horace Slughorn]]'s memory, although this has not been confirmed. 
*It is unclear if he fought in the [[Second Wizarding War]], as he would've been an elderly man if he was still alive.

==Appearances==
*{{HBP}} {{Mention|1st}}
*{{HBP|F}} {{C|Appears in flashback (possibly)}}

==Notes and references==
{{Reflist}}
{{Death Eaters}}
[[de:Mulciber sr.]]
[[es:Mulciber (Era de Tom Ryddle)]]
[[fr:Mulciber (époque de Tom Jedusor)]]
[[nl:Schoorvoet]]
[[pl:Mulciber (Era Riddle'a)]]
[[pt-br:Múlciber (era Riddle)]]
[[ru:Мальсибер-старший]]
[[Category:British individuals]]
[[Category:Death Eaters]]
[[Category:Individuals of unknown gender]]
[[Category:Mulciber family]]
[[Category:Tom Riddle's gang]]