{{MagicAwakenedSpoiler}}{{Individual infobox
|theme = daily-prophet
|image = 
|name = Rolf Scamander
|born = Between [[1949]]<ref>The earliest his parent could have been born was 1932 as his grandparents got married in 1932. The earliest Rolf could be born is 1949, assuming his parent was of age.</ref> and [[September]] [[1993]]<ref name="latest bithdate">Rolf was already a Magizoologist and married by the [[2010–2011 school year]] (in the [[May]] [[2022]] special event of {{MA}} released between the third year and fourth year story, Luna is referred to as Luna Scamander), meaning he was most likely of age.</ref>
|died = 
|blood = [[Pure-blood]] or [[half-blood]]<ref>Rolf was a wizard, but his parents may have been pure-bloods, half-bloods, or a Muggle who married the Squib child of Newton and Porpentina Goldstein.</ref>
|marital = Married
|nationality =[[Great Britain|British]] 
|alias = 
|title = 
|signature = 
|species = [[Human]]
|gender = Male
|height = 
|weight = 
|hair = 
|eyes = 
|skin = "Swarthy"<ref name="reunion">{{PM}} - [[DUMBLEDORE'S ARMY REUNITES AT QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP FINAL]] (Archived)</ref>
|family =*[[Luna Lovegood|Luna Scamander]] (née [[Lovegood family|Lovegood]]) (wife)
*[[Lorcan Scamander]] (son)
*[[Lysander Scamander]] (son)
*[[Xenophilius Lovegood]] (father-in-law)
*[[Pandora Lovegood]] (mother-in-law) †
*[[Newton Scamander|Newt Scamander]] (paternal grandfather) 
*[[Porpentina Goldstein|Porpentina Scamander]] (née [[Goldstein family|Goldstein]]) (paternal grandmother)
*[[Anthony Goldstein]] (distant relative)
*[[Scamander family]]
*[[Lovegood family]] (in-laws)
|romances =[[Luna Lovegood|Luna Scamander]] (wife) 
|animagus = 
|boggart = 
|wand = 
|patronus = 
|job = *[[Magizoologist]]
*[[Chief Consulting Magizoologist]] to the ''[[Daily Prophet]]''
|house = 
|loyalty = *[[Scamander family]]
*[[Lovegood family]]
*''[[Daily Prophet]]''
}}
{{Quote|The Dukuwaqa lives in a warm ocean, the Selma in an icy freshwater lake. The former is a shape-shifter that can transform from fish to man, the latter is a serpent that devours human flesh and fish. You would need the brains of a Billywig not to foresee an immediate bloodbath if both were crammed tightly together in tepid, brackish water.|Rolf Scamander's remarks to the ''[[Daily Prophet]]''|Pottermore}}
'''Rolf Scamander''' was a [[Great Britain|British]] [[Wizardkind|wizard]] in the employment of the ''[[Daily Prophet]]''. He followed the footprints of his [[Newton Scamander|famous grandfather]] and became a [[magizoologist]]. By the 2010s he had become the Chief Consulting Magizoologist for the daily newspaper. 

He [[Marriage|married]] the notable [[Dumbledore's Army]] member and [[Battle of Hogwarts]] combatant [[Luna Lovegood|Luna Lovegood.]]<ref name="mugglenet">[http://www.mugglenet.com/app/news/full_story/1156 JK Rowling Web Chat, 30th July] (archived)</ref> Luna was a fellow naturalist and together they had two sons by the name of [[Lorcan Scamander|Lorcan]] and [[Lysander Scamander|Lysander]].<ref name="unwritten">[[The unwritten story of Harry's friends and their children]] (Archived)</ref>

==Biography==
===Early life===
Rolf was born into the wizarding [[Scamander family]] somewhere in the [[Great Britain|British Isles]]. Not much is known about Rolf's early life other than the fact that he was the grandson of [[Newton Scamander|Newt Scamander]] and his wife [[Porpentina Goldstein|Porpentina]]. He may have identified as [[Judaism|Jewish]], given that his grandmother was possibly a Jewish witch.<ref name="JKR-twitter-anthonygoldstein">[[Anthony Goldstein]] was a Jewish wizard, and [https://twitter.com/jk_rowling/status/632611629843263488 this Twitter post] by [[J. K. Rowling]] confirmed that [[Porpentina Goldstein]] was distantly related to Anthony, although it is not proven that Porpentina was Jewish herself.</ref>

At some point, he followed in the footsteps of his grandfather and went on to become a well-respected magizoologist. 

====Marriage====
Rolf eventually married [[Luna Lovegood]], a fellow naturalist.<ref name="mugglenet"/> According to [[Rita Skeeter]] (a dubious source), he had an unforgettably shocked expression when he saw Luna's [[Luna Lovegood's wedding dress|wedding dress]]. Her dress was decorated with rainbows and spangles, and she wore a tiara of silver unicorn horns. This dress was voted ‘[[Most Hideous Outfit of the Year]]' by readers of Skeeter's regular ''[[Daily Prophet]]'' column.<ref name="reunion"/> The couple had twin sons named [[Lorcan Scamander|Lorcan]] and [[Lysander Scamander|Lysander]].<ref name="unwritten" />

====Chief Consulting Magizoologist====
By the [[2010s]], Rolf Scamander was the [[Chief Consulting Magizoologist]] to the ''[[Daily Prophet]]''. It was in this capacity that he remarked about the [[Argentinian Council of Magic]]'s lack of foresight over the organisation of the opening ceremony of the [[2014 Quidditch World Cup]]. This lack of organisation escalated into a fight between various team mascots prompted by an attempt to make the [[Fiji]]an [[Dukuwaqa]] and [[Norway|Norwegian]] [[Selma]] share a lake.<ref name="PM">{{PM}} - [[DISASTROUS OPENING CEREMONY LEADS TO QUESTIONS ABOUT QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP SECURITY]] (Archived)</ref>

He also attended the final of the [[2014 Quidditch World Cup]] and sat in the VIP boxes with his wife. He held an interesting conversation with [[Charles Weasley|Charlie Weasley]] and held [[Luna Lovegood|Luna]]'s hands. According to [[Rita Skeeter]], he did this because he was trying to prevent his wife from putting on one of her famous [[Special Event Hat]]s.

In [[2019]], during the [[Calamity]], he assisted prospective members of the then recently established [[Statute of Secrecy Task Force]] who sought the advice of a Magizoologist. He shared the expertise passed down to him from his celebrated grandfather, relaying information on how to understand the mind of the [[Erumpent]], as well as his research about [[Occamy|Occamies]], hoping it would help them in the field. He also offered a three-day intensive focusing on Magizoology basics to task force members pursuing a career as a Magizoologist.<ref>{{WU}} ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hCIfSWgMX-c&t=8s see video])</ref>

==Magical abilities and skills==
*'''[[Magizoology]]''': Being a professional [[Magizoologist]] who worked as the [[Chief Consulting Magizoologist]] for the [[Daily Prophet]], Rolf was an expert in the study of [[magic]]al [[creature]]s. He covered various different creatures in his newspaper columns and would have had much knowledge of the creatures he covered. He also enjoyed exploring for strange new creatures with his wife and fellow Magizoologist [[Luna Lovegood]] across the globe. He was able to use his expertise knowledge and skill in this field to educate members of the [[Statute of Secrecy Task Force]] in [[2019]]. He informed the task force on the understanding and handling of various [[beast]]s in their adventures.
*'''Journalism''': Being the [[Chief Consulting Magizoologist]] for the [[Daily Prophet|''Daily Prophet'']], Rolf was a highly talented and professional Journalist and a skilled newspaper reporter on various articles and events in his field. His pieces in the paper were both insightful and informative, showing he had a high degree of Journalistic integrity and that he took his career seriously.

==Relationships==
[[Luna Lovegood|Luna]] was Rolf's wife, whom he had a very close and [[Love|loving]] relationship with. They were both professional [[Magizoologist]]s and both spent their time "''globetrotting and looking for weird creatures''". Rolf had two sons with Luna. Their sons were born "''considerably later''" than the children of [[Harry Potter]] and his other friends.<ref>{{JKYL}}</ref>

==Etymology==
Rolf is a modern variant of the Norse name Hrolfr, which came from the German name Hrodulf (famous wolf). Rolf is formed from the words ''hrodr'' and ''ulf'', meaning "honour" and "wolf", respectively. His name therefore means "Honourable wolf". Rolf, being a form of Rudolph, would be related etymologically to the Potter name [[Rodolphus Lestrange (II)|Rodolphus Lestrange]].

==Behind the scenes==
*It's unknown if he attended [[Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry]].
*According to an interview with [[Evanna Lynch]] at the Oz Comic Con in Sydney in 2015, J. K. Rowling initially planned to introduce Rolf in {{DH}}, where he would have told [[The Tale of the Three Brothers]] to the Golden Trio. Ultimately, however, he was removed from the novel so that [[Xenophilius Lovegood]] could tell the story instead.<ref>[https://www.snitchseeker.com/harry-potter-news/rolf-scamander-almost-added-to-deathly-hallows-book-admits-evanna-lynch-102015/ EXCLUSIVE: Rolf Scamander almost added to Deathly Hallows book, admits Evanna Lynch]</ref>
**She also talked about this to [https://www.therowlinglibrary.com/ TheRowlingLibrary].<ref>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G46KauzPKtw&feature=youtu.be/ In conversation with Evanna Lynch: Her book The Opposite of Butterfly Hunting, Harry Potter and more]</ref>

==Appearances==
*{{DH}} {{c|Early drafts}}
*{{JKYL}} {{Mention|1st}}
*{{PM}} {{Mention}}
*{{HPcom}} {{Mention}}
*{{QTA|2018}} {{Mention}}
*{{WU}} {{Mention}}
*{{MA}} {{Mention}}

==Notes and references==
{{Reflist}}
{{Daily Prophet employees}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Scamander, Rolf}}

[[de:Rolf Scamander]]
[[de2:Rolf Scamander]]
[[es:Rolf Scamander]]
[[fi:Rolf Scamander]]
[[fr:Rolf Scamander]]
[[it:Rolf Scamander]]
[[nl:Rolf Scamander]]
[[no:Rolf Fisle]]
[[pl:Rolf Scamander]]
[[pt-br:Rolf Scamander]]
[[ru:Рольф Саламандер]]
[[sv:Rolf Scamander]]
[[zh:罗夫·斯卡曼德]]
[[ja:ロルフ・スキャマンダー]]
[[Category:2014 Quidditch World Cup attendees]]
[[Category:20th century births]]
[[Category:British individuals]]
[[Category:Daily Prophet staff]]
[[Category:Goldstein family descendants]]
[[Category:Half-bloods]]
[[Category:Luna Lovegood's romantic relationships]]
[[Category:Magizoologists]]
[[Category:Males]]
[[Category:Married individuals]]
[[Category:Parents]]
[[Category:Scamander family|Rolf]]
[[Category:Wizards]]