{{Youmay|the [[Death Eaters|Death Eater]]|the [[Selwyn family|family]] of the same name}}
{{Individual infobox
|theme = death-eater
|image = Selwyn and Travers DHG1 NDS.png
|name = Selwyn
|born =
|died = 
|blood = [[Pure-blood]]<ref name="DH13">{{DH|B|13}}</ref>
|marital = 
|nationality = [[Great Britain|British]]
|alias =
|title =
|signature =
|species = [[Human]]
|gender = Male
|height =
|weight =
|hair =
|eyes =
|skin =
|family = *[[Silvanus Selwyn]] (possible relative)
*[[Selwyn family]]
|romances =
|animagus =
|boggart =
|wand = Unknown length, wood and core<ref name="DH4"/>
|patronus = None<ref>[http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2007/0730-bloomsbury-chat.html J.K. Rowling and the Live Chat, Bloomsbury.com, July 30, 2007]</ref>
|job = 
|house = 
|loyalty = *[[Selwyn family]]
*[[Death Eaters]]
**[[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]]
}}
{{Quote|You can have your little girl, Lovegood, if you get up those stairs and bring me down Harry Potter. But if this is a plot, if it's a trick, if you've got an accomplice waiting up there to ambush us, we'll see if we can spare a bit of your daughter for you to bury.|Selwyn threatening [[Xenophilius Lovegood]]|Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows}}
'''Selwyn''' was a [[Great Britain|British]] [[pure-blood]]<ref name="DH13" /> and a [[Death Eaters|Death Eater]] of [[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]] who fought in the [[Second Wizarding War]]. Selwyn fought in several battles, including the [[Battle of the Seven Potters]]. He also fought at the [[Ambush at the Lovegood House]], along with [[Travers]].

==Biography==
===Second Wizarding War===
Selwyn was one of the many [[Death Eaters]] who fought in the [[Second Wizarding War]] upon pledging his loyalty to [[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]].

====Battle of the Seven Potters====
{{Quote|Your wand, Selwyn! Give me your wand!|[[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]] to Selwyn, during the [[Battle of the Seven Potters]]|Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows}}
Selwyn participated in the [[Battle of the Seven Potters]], and chased [[Rubeus Hagrid]] and the real [[Harry Potter]]. Towards the end of the chase, he was ordered by [[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]] to surrender his [[wand]] when [[Lucius Malfoy]]'s was [[Golden flame|destroyed]] by Harry's [[Harry Potter's wand|wand]]. Harry and Hagrid however were able to escape, likely sparing Selwyn's wand from being destroyed.<ref name="DH4">{{DH|B|4}}</ref>

====Ambush at the Lovegood House====
In early [[1998]], Selwyn travelled with [[Travers]] to [[Xenophilius Lovegood]]'s [[Lovegood House|house]]. Lovegood had been printing articles in ''[[The Quibbler]]'' urging the public to support Harry Potter, and his daughter [[Luna Lovegood|Luna]] was taken to control his behaviour. Lovegood [[Ambush at the Lovegood House|alerted the Death Eaters]] when [[Harry Potter|Harry]], [[Ronald Weasley|Ron Weasley]], and [[Hermione Granger]] came to his home, hoping that they would return his daughter, if he handed over Harry. However, as Selwyn and Travers arrived, the [[Erumpent]] horn in the residence blew up, giving Harry, Hermione, and Ron a chance to hide. Selwyn assaulted and tortured Lovegood, suspicious that the wizard had been lying, but Hermione then engineered the trio's escape so that the Death Eaters saw Harry before they [[Apparition|Disapparated]]. Afterwards, Selwyn and Travers arrested Lovegood.<ref name="DH21">{{DH|B|21}}</ref>

==Physical description==
Little is known about Selwyn's appearance; it is, however, known that he had a rough voice.<ref name="DH21"/> As a Death Eater, he bore the [[Dark Mark]] on his left inner forearm, which faded to a mere scar upon Voldemort's death.

==Personality and traits==
Being a Death Eater, Selwyn was a cruel character; he assaulted [[Xenophilius Lovegood]] when he called him and [[Travers]], thinking that he wanted to entrap them. He also threatened Xenophilius that he would kill or mutilate his daughter, [[Luna Lovegood|Luna]], if he did not obey their commands. He was also quite suspicious, as he believed that Xenophilius wanted to entrap and kill him and Travers.<ref name="DH21"/>

==Magical abilities and skills==
*'''[[Dark Arts]]''': As a loyal Death Eater and servant of the Dark Lord Voldemort, Selwyn would have been proficient with Dark Magic.
*'''[[Duelling]]''': Being a Death Eater, Selwyn would have been accomplished in [[martial magic]] and combat. He fought in the [[Battle of the Seven Potters]], for which he [[Broom Casting|chased down]] [[Rubeus Hagrid]] and [[Harry Potter]] on a broomstick.<ref name="DH4"/> 
*'''[[Flight|Flying]]''': Selwyn was an accomplished [[broomstick]] flyer, as he participated in the [[Battle of the Seven Potters]] in [[1997]], where he was able to successfully keep up with [[Sirius Black's motorcycle|Sirius Black's flying motorbike]] and dodge everything [[Rubeus Hagrid]] and [[Harry Potter]] sent at him.<ref name="DH4"/>

==Possessions==
*'''Wand''': Selwyn owned a [[wand]], which was of an unknown length, [[wand wood]] and [[wand core]]. He used his wand whilst fighting during the [[Battle of the Seven Potters]], during which [[Tom Riddle|Lord Voldemort]] demanded he take his wand to [[curse]] [[Harry Potter]], before he escaped.<ref name="DH4">{{DH|B|4}}</ref> However, as Harry escaped, this would have saved his wand from imminent destruction.

==Behind the scenes==
*When Harry, Ron, and Hermione [[Infiltration of the British Ministry of Magic (1997)|infiltrated]] the [[British Ministry of Magic|Ministry of Magic]] in [[1997]], [[Dolores Umbridge]] mentioned that the [[Selwyn family|Selwyns]] were an old [[pure-blood]] family, and claimed to be related to them; however, this was almost certainly a lie since her father was [[Orford Umbridge]], a janitor whom she found too embarrassing for him to be related the [[Sacred Twenty-Eight]], and her mother was the Muggle [[Ellen Cracknell]].
*Selwyn may have been [[Hedwig's killer]], as he was one of the Death Eaters pursuing Harry and Hagrid at the time.

==Appearances==
*{{DH}} {{1st}}
*{{DH|F1}} {{Possible}}
*{{DH|G1}} {{NDS only}}

==Notes and references==
{{Reflist}}
{{Death Eaters}}
[[de:Selwyn]]
[[de2:Selwyn]]
[[es:Selwyn]]
[[fr:Selwyn]]
[[pl:Selwyn]]
[[ru:Селвин]]
[[no:Scharff]]
[[Category:Battle of the Seven Potters participants]]
[[Category:British individuals]]
[[Category:Death Eaters]]
[[Category:Males]]
[[Category:Pure-bloods]]
[[Category:Selwyn family]]